Annotations and reviews
======

Geometric Folding Algorithms
--------
### `bachelors-thesis/misc/papers/`

The book covers the whole field that studies nets and foldings of polytopes. It recaps all the articles published in this field to present its up-to-date state in the most complete fashion. The book examines if it is possible to reconstruct a polyhedron given the collection of polygons it is glued from; it describes which configuration of polygons produce which polyhedra and how many ways there are to glue a given configuration of polygons into a polyhedron. It also covers different known ways of folding and gluing that are of use and importance in the field.

The book is equipped with comprehensive illustrative material and in-depth explanations and is recommended for anyone willing to pursue the study of foldings and computational geometry in general.

******

Incremental Voronoi diagrams
--------
### `arxiv.org/pdf/1603.08485.pdf/`

The article studies combinatorial changes that a Voronoi Diagram for _n_ sites undergoes when a new site is inserted. First, it introduces the _flarb_ which is the operation that embodies all the changes — deletions and insertions of edges — that happen to the graph of the diagram. The flarb is, to simplify, deletion of all the edges of the graph inside the given curve and adding to the graph all the edges along this curve.

Then the article proves a very important bound: it turns out that there is only _O_(`sqrt`(_n_)) combinatorial changes in the graph per flarb, if several flarbs are applied consequtively. The proof is carried out by introducing a potential function. This bound is of huge importance for the study of dynamic Voronoi diagrams. The article is recommended for anyone pursuing them.

******

The Visibility Center of a Polygon
--------
### `cse.buffalo.edu/socg21/files/YRF-Booklet.pdf`

The authors introduce the concept of the _visibility center_ of a polygon. The problem of finding such a point arises from the practical task of positioning several sensors and a guard inside a polygonal room. The visibility center is the point _c_ such that the sum of lengths of the paths from _c_ to sensors inside the polygon is minimal.

The authors suggest an algorithm that finds the visibility center in time _O_((_m_+_n_)`log`(_m_+_n_)), where _m_ is the number of sensors and _n_ is the number of vertices of the polygons. This running time is considered very efficient in the studies of algorithms.

The article is presented at the Young Researchers Forum, part of Symposium on Computational Geometry, the most prestigious conference in the field.

******

Enumerating Foldings and Unfoldings Between Polygons and Polytopes
--------
### `masters-thesis/assets`

This article studies the configurations of polygons that yield several different polyhedra as a result of gluing. Usually it is hard to tell which polyhedron is obtained by the gluing, since the proof of Alexandrov's theorem that guarantees the existence of such polyhedron is highly non-constructive. Nevertheless, the authors of the article have found and described several series of interesting and important examples of gluings and polyhedra corresponding to them. For example, they show a polygon with _n_ vertices that has 2^(_Ω_(_n_)) combinatorially distinct alexandrov gluings.

The article is equipped with truly spectacular illustrative material and is recommended for anyone as a joyful scientific reading.

******

Shortest Paths on a Polyhedron
--------
### `bachelors-thesis/misc/papers`

_a. k. a. **«Chen—Han's Algortihm»**_

There are several algorithms that allow for efficient search for shortest geodesic paths between points on a given polyhedral surface. This article presents the fastest of them. The algorithm is based on what resembles depth first search aided by «one angle — one split» principle that bounds the size of the tree generated by the search.

The algorithm is rather easy to understand and feasible to implement. It also has many applications in later pieces of research. The article is recommended for those studying geometrical algorithms.

******
